Notes

Today I am starting up Javascript basics and fundamentals.  I made the decision to move forward to the next stage of personal development by continuing onward.  I completed some of the flexbox material and built a landing page (not their official one but my own for someone else).  Since I may have a new client and the landing page was successful, it seems that stage is done. God help me to move forward successfully.

These notes will be my thoughts, while the actual notes will be a separate file that can be found at Documents/OdinProject/Javascript Notes/Fundamentals-part1.odt .

First thought: holy crap dude.  There is a massive list of complicated vocabulary terms and concepts that it throws at us initially before talking about anything.  That is a bit terrifying but we are going to learn it because we clearly were successful in learning CSS.  If we can learn HTML and CSS we can handle a bit of Javascript too no?

The next thing they chose was to tell me we're going to start by running JS in browser.  They say that later lessons will teach us how to do outside the browser, which I find unusual and intriguing. It talks about NodeJS so maybe I'll finally understand what the hell that thing is.  Right now as a no-nothing for JS I'm really really lost on why we would want to run a website language outside of the website that it's supposedly impacting.

Our first project requires us to put together a skeleton of HTML.  For this and the future, I've created a repo aptly named Javascript. Look there.

Our first command is in the <script></script> tags in a body.  It's console.log("Hello World!").  Cute.  I opened up console in the devtools pane of the page and sure enough it's there.  I understand this is a way to introduce us to the console but I'm not understanding functionally where it's place is in the greater structure of the things we build and do.

It's kinda neat that we can import .js files the way we import .css files.
I'm not liking how we went from simple var for assigning variables to 3 different ones (var,let,const).  What the hell is that all about?! It's not as intuitive as say...Python where you can do str = variable or int = variable and assign by input type.

"In many tutorials(and code) across the internet you're likely to encounter var statements. Don't let it bother you!" .....why would it if this is the original way? If anything, I'm more bothered that there are let and const. 

Oh joy...we're going to rely on let and const instead of var.  OK then....*grumble*
Alright...Hit bottom of the page and I feel pretty lost.  I think they could've done a better job in laying out the function of Javascript, what it is, how it works, etc. first.  They did a much better, cleaner, hand-holdy job with HTML and CSS. Here it's just "hey here is helloworld in console.log! now do math and tell us what you learned".  Let's see if the links they provided are a bit more enlightening. I'm tempted to go to Vickler and run through his JS stuff.

OK....I'm at javascript.info and the tutorial they have here is pretty great. I think I'll give it a read through in further detail from the main page because the explanation of variable, with it's code examples that can be imitated, are superb in quality so far.

Another cute detail that I noticed was that in console I can run commands.  Since javascript.info uses alert to demonstrate using a variable, I tested it out for fun by typing alert("") with some....entertaining...statements. This produces an alert box on page and I'm thrilled. That is both fun and interesting.