Today's exercise is in CSS Margins and Padding. I've done this before in the The Odin Project and hopefully this will reinforce that.

At first glance, the initial project Vickler gives is simple. A div after an h4...but magically the div is centered relative to the page. It's not perfectly centered and the element is expanded far beyond the text but it gives off the illusion of centering.

Why is this?  I looked back at the code to understand why it's showing up this way and concluded the following: the margin is 100. We didn't specify what direction.  We're about equidistant from the h4 element as we are from the left "wall" of the screen. I measured this with my fingers and it was approximate enough that it seemed to validate my theory.

Therefore, potentially one could use margins to set an element center or right if so desired, at the cost of specifying in detail (margin-left) or accepting movements and overlaps made by the computer when thrown a general "margin: 100px" type statement like we used.

Devtools also came in handy.  In margin2.html I created a similar illusion of centered element with 80px left margin and 150 the rest(individually stated). To the eye it seems as though the margin wasn't accurate but under dev tools inspector it was made clear that the margin was 150 and the display of the devtools made it easier to see that.

Since we had to spell out specific lines for each side, it was learned that we have individual control for each and every possible margin.  If I wanted to push things far to the right side, I could set a left-margin of 1000. If I want to push to the bottom, same thing. Within the boundaries of the screen as dictated by the device.

In margin3.html there is inheritance from a div to paragraph kaz.  The CSS styles divs to have margin-left of 50px and a skyblue border of 5px.  The h4 and p preceding the div don't style this way. Since the div contains the child element of a paragraph (kaz), there will be an inheritance potentially.  If the div had several others, they'd also inherit. The way we make this happen is by styling the internal child elements as inherit, conferring them with div's styling.

I suspect that it may be possible for child elements not to inherit, if we were to specify several paragraphs and set inheritance or not. Let's test it out.

Interestingly within the skyblue border of the div, the regular paragraphs stayed left...The 789 and the original inheritance both got moved left 50px. I'm not sure why they weren't given their own boxes since inside should be considered padding. We spell it out that they inherit borders so if there are non-inheriting elements why wouldn't that be cause enough to enforce bordering when stacked with other block elements in the div?

On the margin collapse: Vickler states that left/right margins don't do this....but..if we shifted axes, would this apply?