Good morning. Time to get going. Yesterday we had 3 pages that we made which explored if, else, and elseif.
Today we're going to do a switch statement and see how that turns out.  The switch takes a look at our day, determines it by the several given courses, and executes accordingly.

This code executed correctly...Today is Wednesday and it has accurately and correctly detected that and given me the message for Wednesday. Awesome.
The default keyword also can be used to set a block to run when none of the conditions run. In the case of default.html we get rid of Tuesday. The book made it so it's assumed to be Tuesday and it spits back out the default condition. It does this so we can see since the condition of Tuesday is possible while an 8th day isn't.

Now for a new chapter: strings and arrays.
stringdemo1.html works...it displays the string count.
We have another thing called indexof() that is demonstrated for us in stringinstring.html.  The outcome of this one is simple: msgY is 25.  What does that mean overall? Position 25!

Our next page looks for the last. Since our text only has it once, obviously it stays position 25.
After this we tackle what happens if we don't find our search term in the string. This is notfound.html 's role....and the outcome is simple: -1 is returned in output if not found..Washington isn't in the string so of course it isn't found. Our changing the html of our display paragraph indicates this to us for our sake.

The search method is about the same but seems to be case sensitive.

Slice cuts from position to position....which we know from previous notes. Substring is similar but can't go backward (negative positioning). Not exactly a big deal. Substr cuts from position onward for however many chars in 2nd position of (num, num).

Replace() does a similar thing to these but instead of taking chars from a position it looks for words (presumably by value of letters in unicode) and then replaces them with new string of choice. BUT..it does this to a new variable...so we must have a "catcher" variable.