Notes on "The Perfect Landing Page Structure(With Examples)" on Flux channel.** This one wasn't the Israeli guy Ran but rather some other guy named Izzy who also is "from Flux".

He found an article from a marketing newsletter called "Marketing Examples". The article is called "My step-by-step guide to landing pages that convert". It lays out what the author believes is a successful way of doing landing pages.

Marketing vs Design-- same goal, different approach. Make the best and most appealing product for customer.

1) Title/Headline.  Explain the value you provide.  Explain what you do.
Example: Muzzleapp. "A simple mac app to silence embarrassing notifications while screensharing".

2) Subtitle/Subhead. Where we elaborate how we'll deliver that.
Example: Dormio.  "restful nights are a sip away" -> "calming and sleepy teas to help you unwind and drift to sleep".

3)CTA- Call to action.  Whole point is to guide the users and tell them "this is what's next." Two possible routes.
a) call to value: calls on people to do something.
example: flux website. "start learning" on button.
b) objection handling: "try zencaster for free" where "for free" is the objection handling (supposing concern about price/payment). The button to signup is therefore telling the potential clients to sign themselves and not to worry about cost because it's free.
example: zencastr

4) Social Proof. Showing people customers and testimony and data that implies someone already uses it/buys it.
This gives immediate credibility from biases. Doesn't need to be long testimony or icons. Rating/amount of reviews works too.
This is "above the fold" type.

5)Visual. See the proof that it works or understand in big picture how the experience is.
example: smiledirectclub.ca website. They have multiple pictures of people with product, using product, inserting product...which is plastic dentures.

"Above the fold"-- everything seen without having to scroll.
"Below the fold"-- everything below.

6) Features and Objections. This is where we justify all the value of the headline and subtitle. Explain how it works, handle objections, show product in action.
example: zencastr  -- "studio quality podcasting" sold.... seen product in action, below fold they address in detail how the products help.

7)More social proof.
Example: "Bite Toothpaste".  Below the fold, 2 sections with social proof. "Credible Media" and "Customer Testimonial"....so...reviews from media (NYT best seller list type stuff) and customers.

8)FAQ--frequently asked question.
Ex: "We are Noodz" site. Everything that can't be addressed in short, addressed in detail "under the fold"

9) 2nd CTA-- To reinforce process.  After our initial CTA, after delivering our social proof and features/benefits, we have 2nd CTA so it's easy to take action.

10) Founder's Note-- Where the people behind website/product can tell their story. Explain how they came up with the product, how they arrived at it, what problems they're trying to solve.
Example: getneuro.com   They have video, pictures, and written story detailing who the founders are and why they created the product.
