These are my free-hand notes on the following videos and information sources:
1)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e_kdWMmD3z0 -- DevEd Color Theory 101- Web Design for Beginners
2)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wmEc9HeQV7Q&list=PLDyQo7g0_nsWnzPqYMqoJpm08ULrkiIbt&index=5 -- DevEd Design & Build A Website Crash Course- The Design
3)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A4ViC7NwbZ8 -- DevEd Should you learn Web Design as a Web Developer?
4)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HnpsOtIcfbo -- DevEd Typography 101- Web Design for Beginners

Video 1 notes:
This video has to do with the concepts behind color and design.
Primary colors are: Yellow, Red, Blue.
We can mix yellow and red == orange
mix red and blue == purple
mix blue and yellow == green
These are secondary colors (orange,purple,green)
Tertiary colors are the combinations between those primaries and secondaries.

This creates the spectrum of colors. This whole lineup is the "hue scheme"..The "color of the color".

Saturation: is the intensity of the color. A very saturated color looks bright and alive. An unsaturated color looks dull and boring.

Difference between daylight and nightlight where colors are expressed better in day.

Darkness leads to tone. As color gets darker, it gets closer to grey and black.

Lightness:
If we add white to a color, we are affecting the "tint".
If we add black to the color, we affect the shade.

This is the HSL system's relevant state. Each value 0-100 relates to us the color in these.

Color Psychology:
*Red-- Passion, love, exciting, energetic.
Example: Jack Daniels picture at 4:02 mark. Uses heavily saturated red to stand out and grab attention.
Example:Nike shoes. 4:17 mark. Found in other sport designs because it adds energy and intensity and passion about the sport.

*Blue-- intelligence, trust, security
Tech  likes to use this. Found in Facebook and Twitter. Color of communication.

*Orange-- Friendly vibe of happiness and joy. That made it fitting as a choice for a fitness website dedicated to working out.

*Green-- Color of nature. Things related to health, nature, peacefulness, growth, money.

*Non-color-- white/black:
Black-- Classiness and power. Associated with luxury. Give off the feel of sophistication.

White-- Innocent. Pure, safe, clean.

Mono vs Multi-Chromatic? More than one color?
"Not necessary". We can vary the color with saturation and lightness to achieve different shades. This leads to monochromatic design.
Example: Tea website. Dark shade of green on white with presence of lighter shades of green.

Great resource for picking colors is Adobe Color. We can suss out the range of color within our goal color.  If we use analogous we get a range of color. If we use monochromatic we get the shading changes. Complementary picks a color that is complementing to our color. We can pick a primary and have other colors as secondary.
End video.

Video 2 notes:

Video 3 notes:
Should we learn design as a dev? Short answer is yes. It helps in balancing things out and understanding the outcome.

Basics that would suffice to learn: basic color theory, what to emphasize, page layout.  Will be covered in later tutorials (video 2).

Video 4 notes:
Typography--the art of making words look nice.

Getting started: opened up figma and we're going to create a design the "lazy way". 

He creates a company called travelly. Has a paragraph and a header. Header is "Unleash your travel."
subheader of "The mountains of Tibitabo". And then a filler paragraph.

He has 3 images for his website. One big on right side, 2 smaller ones under the paragraph. An arrow between the 3.
Under that at some spot is a header "mountains" and a paragraph with filler text. He repeats this under that one.

On left side of page next to it is an image. Now it's got a basic style layout.