Method: Take 5-10 pages worth of freelancer homepages and analyze them
Collect what is common among them
Imitate and build that into structure

1) Zachary DuBow (www.zacharydubow.info).
*Nav-bar formed of container and sub-container divs in flex.
*Shows name | Past Work Skills Testimonials
*Right of this is a div for socials called social-nav. As expected, it produces us the various logos of social media like twitter.
*Far Right is a contact div. This pushes you to down in the page by id like wikipedia style sections.

Under the bar he has an intro. Fairly simple "Hi there, I'm Zach" and explanation of his creds. He offers 2 buttons here (Work With Me, See My Past Work) and has a picture next to it. Each button just invokes a page wiki-style like "Contact" up in nav.

He utilizes the same dark blue/white color scheme throughout the page, with only a handful of exceptions.

His next area is "Apps I've built". This is a section called "projects". Referrals built in take us here. He gives us 4 examples of his work (including github).

Next section is "Testimonials" and contains his testimonial and personal reference.

Next is section is "Skills".  He posts that he is a full stacker and gives a list of things he uses for his projects.

Next is "contact", where we were first referred to. Here there is a map of Israel pointing him as Jerusalem.  There is also a form here where he says he's happy to hear from us and he then again offers his social media contacts. The form he posted collects name/email/message and submits with a button.

For fun he put an API call of some kind that uses skyscanner... "Visit me in Israel".  It can be used to book flights.

"Summon Me" is an area beneath that which runs off something called calendly.  It allows for picking a day and time for a web conference call.  Pretty neat and definitely slick.

His ending is rather weird though: an old matrix picture with his name placed on top of it.  It seems relatively out of place compared to his very well designed and professional website.

Overall opinion: dude definitely has some skills.

2)Omri Feinstein (omrifeinstein.com).
Page opens with simple black on white layout.  Name in left corner and slightly off-center in center(with red underline).  States "Web developer and designer" under that.  He puts his nav in header as ul. The whole of what we see is in a div called "wrapper". This itself contains a div called "hero" where the opening portion of the page is located. Inside is the container for his text (textbox...and a down arrow).  It's kind of weird how he arranged the text portion since to me it seems overcomplicated for simple black text on white.

Omri has skipped sections (or else not yet heard about them) but the next is "projects".  This houses 8 examples with a picture next to text. He staggered them so that the pics/text switch off. It's pretty sharp and one of the features I like about his site.

Next would-be "section" is "resume".  He lists skills for 2 main sets: design and developmen. He lists his experience across from these 2 u-lists but stylistically it is a bit crammed.

Finally he ends with "contact" 'section' which is simply a CTA with an e-mail link to click and a form that collects name, email, message. He also added a formal looking copyright line.

Overall, very simple to replicate and probably a lot closer to what I will end up with.

3) Yuval Tsabar(https://yuvaltsabar.com)
Excellent color template that is easy on the eyes, pretty, and works well. (Fade green -> Blue).
He has a nav bar at the top. Home/About/Skills/Services/Testimonials/Projects/Contact.
He uses flexbox and each one pulls a section by id.
Very straightforward "Welcome to my portfolio" and an introduction: My name is Yuval Tsabar. Just another web developer :)   There is read more in a button.

He keeps a separate bar on the right which hints where we are in the structure of things by way of dots.
Bottom left corner are stuck fb/linkin/xplace buttons. It follows the page as you go down.  If you scroll down, it achieves the same as "read more" button.

Yuval cleanly keeps the page centered on the new slide. This is "About me". Basic history of how he got into web dev at 15. Now 35.  He lists 3 stats: projects completed (172), Happy Clients (100%), years of pro experience (7).  Very good for laying out his creds thick.  Next to this on the left side is a random picture of some html.

Next page is "My Skills". He playfully tells us the field changes, he loves to keep up and apply them.
We also get a list of his skills and a 1-100% rating slide-bar looking graphic for where he feels he's holding.  He does this by having a div that houses the divskill name, another div for progress bar value,and a span that covers/fills in that with white..This has an overlap effect which makes the bar look like it's a real item. Neat trick. I played with it some and set it to 30% but it says "90%" in the text. I might have changed it to say poop in devtools just to see what happened. It's text box essentially. Very neat way to execute that effect.

Next slide is a revolving door slider of "my services". This has icon above a stated theme and explanation subtitle. He's got it set to automatically rotate between them for added effect.

Next after that is testimonials.  He states his goal is to keep the customer happy and give the best experience.  There are 3 dots indicating the opinions. Seems he rotates between 3-4. This also automatically rotates what they said on slides.

He included a My Projects section. It's not stated whether they're personal or work but we get a choice of about 21 projects to scroll through. This isn't automatic. Not sure why given his consistency has been good in the others.

Lastly, contact me section.  "Need a new website? Web application? like to invite me for a beer? feel free to contact me!"
Left side is webform...Name,Email, message.  Right side is his address, phone, and e-mail.

Overall great website and well-executed design.